Slugs
Description: Slugs will leave a slimy trail both on plants and surrounding soil. They feed on a variety of living plants but prefer tender leaves and seedlings. A sign of slug damage is leaves with holes and ragged edges. They are most active at night and early morning. 

Controls: Deter slugs by keeping vegetation such as grass and weeds cut low around your garden.Fill a small cup with beer and bury it in the soil, replace every few days.Catch slugs by laying down boards around your garden and check underneath during the day to find and dispose of them.Sprinkle a thick layer of either diatomaceous earth, egg shells, sand, sawdust or coffee grounds around your plants.Create a barrier using thin strips of sandpaper or copper (tape, wire or tubing).It is also worth noting that ducks, chickens and birds are natural predators for slugs

Description: The preventative measures for this species can also be applied to the cabbage moth. Both lay eggs on the undersides of leaves, to hide from predators. The larvae (caterpillars) will feed on cabbage, brussel sprouts, pok choi, kale, and broccoli.

Controls: First line of defence would be to cover your vegetables with a row cover, which is a fabric that allows sun and rain to pass through but keeps insects out.Check the undersides of leaves and wipe off any green caterpillars or eggs, which look like yellow dots.Spray an insecticide such as Bt on the top and undersides of the plant leaves and reapply after heavy rain, or several times a week if there is already an infestation.Sprinkle diatomaceous earth on the leaves of your plant

Description: Also known as the cabbage fly, cabbage root fly or root-maggot fly. They lay their eggs in the early spring near the stems of plants of the cabbage family (broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, etc.) The larvae are white maggots that resemble pieces of rice.


Controls: First line of defence would be to cover your vegetables with a row cover, which is a fabric that allows sun and rain to pass through but keeps insects out.To prevent the fly from laying its eggs, make a collar from cardboard or carpet with a slit in the middle to fit around your plant.Sticky traps can be effective at catching the root fly, or a yellow dish filled with water and a drop of detergent.As a last resort you can run your fingers through the top layers of soil near the plant and destroy the eggs.


Description: Tiny insects that suck sap from your plant leaves, causing them to curl up and turn yellow. Aphids will rarely kill a mature plant but they carry diseases that can be destructive to your crop. They are often found in clusters on the undersides of leaves.

Controls: If you notice an infestation, spray lots of water on the leaves and stem until they are all gone.Spraying the aphids with a solution of 50/50 rubbing alcohol and water will kill them instantly.Ladybugs will eat aphids and is a good, natural solution if you''re able to get access to them.Apply diatomaceous earth around your plant but avoid getting any on any flowers as this will be harmful to pollinators



 tiny sap sucking insects. check plants often, undersides of leaves. row cover, blast off with water. crop rotation. lady bugs or lady bug larvae