Carrots:

Description: Easy to grow, and cold tolerant. Carrots prefer deep, loose or sandy soil and will not grow well if soil is acidic. If you're using manure, make sure it is well aged.

Starting: Direct seed a few weeks before last frost in the spring at 1/4" depth. Space them as close as you want but thin them out when they come up, to 4-6 inches apart. Carrot seed germination is slow.

Harvesting and Storing: Carrots will be ready to harvest in 2-3 months. Can be left in the ground late in the fall but should be harvested before ground freezes. Store root vegetables in temperatures just above freezing.

Pests: Rust Fly, Slugs, Earwigs

Pea:

Description: Easy to grow, and cold tolerant. Varieties include: Garden Pea (Edible peas, inedible pod), Snow/Sugar Pea (Edible pod with small peas inside) and Snap Pea (Edible pod with full sized peas). Climbing support for the vines is required.

Starting: Direct seed a month before last frost. Germination can be quicker if seed is soaked overnight. Plant seeds at 1" depth and space them 3-4 inches apart.

Harvesting and storing: Peas can be harvested at any stage but will turn bitter if left on the plant too long. Peas are best fresh and can be frozen for long term storage.

Pests: Slugs

Onion:

Description: Easy to grow, and very cold tolerant. Onions sets (bulbs) have a higher success rate than seeds.

Starting: Can be planted in early spring, as soon as ground is thawed. Plant bulbs 1-2 inches deep and space them 3-4 inches. Fertilize every two weeks until the fall with a general purpose fertilizer (20-20-20). Onions started from bulbs will typically take 4 months to reach full size.

Harvesting and Storage: When tops are brown and flopped over it is time to harvest. To cure onions, gently brush off dirt and let dry in sunny, ventilated area for 1-2 weeks. Store in a cool room.

Broccoli:

Description: Cool season crop that is a member of the Brassica family (Cauliflower, Cabbage, etc.)

Starting: Can be seeded directly in the garden a month before last frost, about an inch or two deep. Broccoli produce large heads so they should be spaced 18 inches apart. They require full sun and moist, rich soil. They can also be planted for a fall crop, about three months before the first fall frost. Caterpillars from the white butterfly is a common pest - see "Pests" section for details.

Harvesting and Storage: Most varieties will be ready in 2-3 months. Harvest broccoli when the buds of the head are firm and tight before the heads flower. If you see yellow petals, harvest immediately. Leave side shoots to develop for a few more weeks. 

Tomato: 

Description: One of the most popular vegetables to grow. Tomatoes are a warm season crop and must be grown in the garden after the danger of frost has passed. They can be either determinate (bush) or indeterminate (climbing).

Starting: Tomatoes should be started indoors in a sunny window or under lights 8 to 10 weeks before last frost. When transplanting, plant the seedlings deep, burying half of the stem. Once they start growing, remove side shoots (suckers) that appear between the stem and the branch. Be careful not to overwater the tomatoes once they are ripening as this will crack the fruits. It also important to keep the plants upright to keep the fruits clean and away from slugs.

Harvesting: Leave tomatoes on vine as long as possible, unless there is danger of frost. A tomato ready for harvest will be slightly soft and very red in color. If the tomato is not quite ready for harvest and frost is imminent, pick them all and store them in newspaper or paper bags. Store inside in a cool place and they will ripen slowly over the next week or two.

Bean:

Description: A warm season crop that is eaten fresh off the plant or incorporated into a recipe. Green beans can be either bush (dwarf) or pole (climbing).

Starting: Beans are best direct seeded sometime around last spring frost. Plant 1 inch deep and cover soil to warm if necessary. Plants should be spaced 4-6 inches apart and for an all summer harvest, sow seeds every 2 weeks until August. If you are planting pole beans, you must support the vines. Do not overfertilize.

Harvest: Pick snap beans when seeds inside have not fully developed. The more you pick, the better harvest you'll have. Pick shell beans when the beans inside are plump.

Kale:

Description: An extremely hardy, cool season crop that is fairly easy to grow. Kale is a member of the cabbage family and is very nutritious.

Starting: Kale can be started in early spring for a summer crop or started during the summer for a fall crop. Plant 1/4 to 1/2 inch deep in rich soil with lots of organic matter. Space plants 8-12 inches apart. Larvae of the white butterfly, can leave kale plants badly damaged. See "Pests" section for more details.

Harvest: Leaves harvested in the fall will taste sweeter than in the summer. Pick the outer, larger leaves and leave the smaller ones in the center so they continue to grow. Kale can be frozen for storage.

Potato:

Description: A popular and fun vegetable to grow. Potatoes prefer slightly acidic soil. 

Starting: Can be started a month before last frost in a cold frame and 1-2 weeks without a cold frame. Seed potatoes can be planted whole if they are small. Cut only large potatoes with each section having 2-3 eyes. Cut pieces should be kept for a few days before planting, to give them a chance to form a protective layer. To get a head start, sprout your seed potatoes before planting by placing them in a warm room. Plant potatoes in the ground 2 inches deep and 12 inches apart. Build up soil around the base of the plant as they grow.

Harvest: Dig up potatoes a week or two after all the foliage has died, for maximum size. Harvest on a dry day and loosen soil around plant before digging down. Allow potatoes to dry on the ground for a few hours and gently brush off dirt. Store in a cool, dark room.

Zucchini:

Description:  A summer squash that can harvested throughout the summer. Because this is a warm-season vegetable, it is very susceptible to frost damage.

Starting: Direct seed in garden once the danger of frost has passed, or start inside under lights a month before last frost. Plant seeds 1 inch deep and 2 feet or more apart. Squash plants are heavy feeders, so be sure to provide lots of compost or aged manure. There are separate male and female flowers on the plant and they must be cross polinated in order for the zucchini to develop. The female flower contains a small fruit at the base of the flower and is also edible. 

Harvest: Cut through the stem when harvesting the zucchini, rather than breaking them off the vine.

Pepper: 

Description:
